# **Abstract**

With the rapid growth of mobile devices, mobile ad-hoc networks(MANET) have become very popular. One of the characteristics of MANET is that nodes can communicate with each other in a MANET without infrastructure support, there is no access point(AP), each node can act as a router and a host, and nodes are at the same level. Nodes can communicate with each other by forming a multi-hop route. It is important to construct networks quickly in an emergency. However in a traditional MANET, due

to the mobility of the nodes and the scarcity of battery resources, data transmission is likely to be interrupted by the constant changes in topology. Managing mobile ad hoc networks is a difficult task. While managing MANET, we should ensure the characteristics of the mobile ad-hoc network. In addition, the cloud can provide reliability and robustness for tra- ditional MANET. The focus of this paper is on the implementation of the MANET model using Bluetooth technology and the design of two cloud services to ensure the reliability and timeliness of communication as well as the timely update of the routing of each node using depth-first and breadth-first algorithms.

# **Introduction**

##  **Mobile ad-hoc network(MANET)**

A mobile ad-hoc network is an autonomous collection of mobile devices (laptops, smartphones, sensors, etc.) that communicate with each other over wireless links and cooperate in a distributed manner to provide the necessary network functionality without a fixed infrastructure[Hoebeke et al. 2004]. A mobile ad-hoc network or MANET is a distributed network without infrastructure. Each node can act as a router, and communication between nodes is coordinated through network protocols and algorithms so that the entire network does not become inoperable due to the collapse of one node. Nodes can access other’s radio ranges, and then they can communicate directly and are responsible for dynamically discovering each other[Hoebeke et al. 2004].

For communication between nodes that are not directly connected, the intermediate nodes act as routers and are responsible for forwarding Data. There can be multiple intermediate nodes, and finally, the Data is sent to the destination. However, mobile devices often have some common problems, such as battery energy-constrained limited memory. Moreover, the dynamic topology is unpredictable because mobile devices can freely join and leave a MANET. Although the dynamic network topology is one of the characteristics, there are other significant characteristics, such as multi-hop routing, self-organisation and self-administration, etc.

## **Cloud computing**

Cloud computing service refers to the unified management and scheduling of a large number of computing resources connected through the network to form a pool of computing resources to serve users on demand. There are four types of computing services: Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Data storage as a Service (DaaS)[Dillon, Wu, and Chang 2010]. Cloud computing compares to traditional IT, where companies install and manage applications and maintain their own local Data centres by purchasing hardware, system software, and development tools. Instead, the cloud service provider owns, manages, and maintains these assets in cloud computing, while the customer only pays on demand. In other words, the resources and services on the cloud used by the user are unlimited. Therefore, the main advantage of any "as-a-service" solution is economics: for enterprises, choosing a cloud provider is the most economical and stable way to manage and maintain their own business as business volumes increase, without the need to purchase expensive private server equipment, etc. In addition, one of the benefits of the cloud is high flexibility that allows users to access cloud services anytime, anywhere, with an Internet connection and to scale up and down services as needed. Another benefit is security, where the cloud provider’s security team is the leading expert in the field and provides depth and breadth of security mechanisms.

## **The Project Topic**

The project name is "**Cloud platform for the management of mobile ad-hoc networks**" it can be decomposed into two parts, one about cloud management, and the other is to realise an ad-hoc network. As we know, There are many kinds of research on MANET, and a significant proportion of these have been done on various types of simulators, mainly due to the MANET protocol being very cumbersome and challenging to implement. Therefore, there are differences between the simulated environment and situation and the actual results, as implementing the MANET network in the first step is necessary. Mobile ad-hoc network, the keyword is mobile, Android platform supports Bluetooth network stack, this function can realise exchange Data within Bluetooth devices through a wireless way. Within a radio range, mobile devices can establish channels to transfer any kind of Data with each other without infrastructure support.

From my point of view, in Bluetooth, the device communication method is similar to Java socket, where socket communication is a transmission mode based on the TCP/IP network layer. All devices need to allocate the IP address. In comparison, Bluetooth communication relies on the MAC address, the benefit is that there is no need to assign a MAC address, as the device already has a unique one.

The implementation of Bluetooth communication is not network-dependent. One device acts as the server and the other as the client for the connection, the exact connection steps I will describe in Chapter 3. Although the official Android documentation and the official demo briefly demonstrate how two Android devices communicate, in the context of the project, MANET’s communication mode is not only a direct connection but also a multi-hop communication, which would be too limited if the Data transferred is only text. In this project, I will use Bluetooth to implement device discovery and multi-hop communication, extend the official demo and support text, voice and image transfer. In conclusion, using Bluetooth to implement a MANET network is feasible.